Hello, everyone.
I hope you all are doing well.
And let's start this day with a new project in Java.
The title of this project is School Payment System.
I hope you can see it on your screen.
This is the output that the program outputs.
All we can say that this is the result of this project we are going to build today.
So let us begin with the specifications of this project and then start explaining the project what actually
the project does.
So coming to the project specifications head, it is listed that this project manages everything about
school funds or you can see that school's money.
Basically, it is a money management system for a school.
Yes.
Like in our school, we have to pay the salary to the teachers, collect the fees from the students,
and there are many other expenses.
So.
So in the management system, the main aim is to gather all the funds and then distribute it to the
required ones in a very managed way.
The aim of this project is to keep track of the student total fees and what fees is already paid.
Who are not, who are not, who have not paid the fees like this.
Also we have to keep the track that which teacher has paid his or her salary?
Which teacher is left to be paid his or her salary?
So take it at a wide angle.
You have a school, you have teachers, you have students, and you have other employees.
Also in this project, we are going to consider our school as our main body and the expenses only as
the teacher's salary.
Of course, this is not the only expense as school bears, but in this project we are discussing the
basic concept.
So we will keep it simple by the expense of the school as the teacher's salary and the earning as the
fees paid by the students.
Yes.
So let's start the learning, the concept behind this project.
Before making any project, you must wonder what are the consequences of learning this project?
What are the significant features of Java or any other project you are going to build?
What are the significant features of that language?
We are going to learn by making this project and you are doing no wrong as we want to make any project
just for the sake of learning the concept of language and making the project is the best way.
I think it is the it is the main way to learn the concept of any language we are going to make projects
in.
So, yes, let us take a dig into what this project actually teaches us.
So the first one is object oriented programming in Java.
Second one is building Java apps.
Third one is core Java tutorial.
So yes, this project is a tutorial which we are going to teach you core Java concepts.
The fourth one is Java School Funds Management System.
As I earlier told you, we are going to manage the funds of a school.
So yes, in Java we are going to learn a school fund management system project and the main feature
of Java we are going to learn in this project is classes and objects in Java with example as the first
feature is object oriented programming in Java.
So that is no object oriented programming without classes, an object.
We have classes, objects and methods that makes the programming of the project very, very convenient.
So let's take a look at what actually object oriented programming in Java is and what are its other
features.
So this is the official site of WTC schools and you can learn very good concepts on this site.
So I am open about Java ops and we are going to take a look at what Java ops is.
So yes, OPS stands for object oriented programming in earlier.
We have procedural oriented programming, which was the.
Conventional way of programming.
So let's differentiate between procedural programming and object oriented programming in a quick way.
So in project programming, procedural programming, we have to write prosody or third method, but
in object programming, we have to create objects that contains both data and methods.
And the main difference between procedure programming and object oriented programming is that real world
data handling in object oriented programming, the real world data is handled.
But in procedural programming, there is nothing about real world data handling.
Yes.
And the features of object oriented programming or procedural oriented programming are listed here.
We know that UPS is faster and easier to execute and the structure of the code is very defined and very
clear in object oriented programming, in ops.
There is a there are many features like inheritance, data handling, data binding.
And with the help of inheritance, we can really create a class with the help of inheritance without
writing it again and again.
So, yes, this is called as drive.
Don't repeat yourself.
We do not have to repeat all readymade classes in our program again and again.
We just have to call that class.
And here it is.
Everything will be applied at just one click.
Yes.
Let us take a look at the core concepts of object oriented programming we are going to learn in this
project.
So we have classes and we have objects.
Let's take our real world example of what class and objects are.
Class.
Suppose a fruit is a class.
We all know about fruit and the type of foods we eat like we have apples, bananas, mangoes, guavas,
etc. so they can consider fruit as a class and object.
Add some as a member of the class.
Yes.
So object is a member of the class and it is a real world.
Object is a real world entity.
We can define the object as it is a member of class and it is a real world entity.
So coming back to the project part in this project we have three Java classes.
We already learned about what classes are.
And in this program, in this project, we will have three Java classes.
They will be schooled at Java, teachers dot Java and students taught Java.
So yes.
In the execution part, I can explain you what this program is doing.
So we have created a school.
Suppose that the school.
Answer Yes.
One lakh ₹10,000 per year.
So yes.
And schools should spend for the salary of teachers.
They can.
So those schools will give salary to the teachers, receive the fees from the students, and the whole
year fund will be distributed in such way.
Suppose that each student has to pay for your one lakh rupees to the school.
Yes.
So this is the fee structure of the school.
You students have to pay one lakh rupees per year to the school.
So from the one lakh rupees from each student, the school has to pay to the teachers.
So we will learn how, with the help of Java, we will distribute the salaries and the students fees
and receive what?
The money?
What the.
What is the fund left in the school at the end?
So let's start the project with the coding execution part in the next review.
Thank you.